1994

Two major Greenpeace campaign victories. In May 1994, the International Whaling Commission establishes an Antarctic whale sanctuary (Environmental Agenda section). After 10 years of Greenpeace campaigning on toxic trade, 65 nations sign up to the Basel Convention banning the export of all hazardous wastes from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to non-OECD countries.

1995

Read about French nuclear testing and Shell’s plans to dump the Brent Spar oil platform in the North Sea. You can also find out more about how chlorine chemistry threatens our health and future, together with setbacks in the fight to protect the ozone layer.

1996

The US, Russia, France, China and the UK sign the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). Greenpeace underlines its global commitment, turning east and opening an office in Hong Kong as a first step towards establishing Greenpeace in China. Genetically modified organisms and solar power also feature in the report.

1997

This is Greenpeace’s first year in China. Highlights from the report include the Kyoto climate agreement, an expedition documenting the break-up of Antarctic ice shelves and actions to prevent logging in Canada’s ancient rainforests. Scientific investigations reveal that children are exposed to harmful chemicals from soft PVC (polyvinyl chloride) toys, and that La Hague nuclear reprocessing plant is emitting high levels of radiation into the sea.

1998

1998 was the UN’s International Year of the Oceans. Greenpeace has long campaigned to protect the oceans, and our efforts are rewarded with ahistoric agreement that bans the dumping of offshore installations like the Brent Spar and a phase-out of radioactive and toxic waste discharges into the north-east Atlantic. Following 15 years of Greenpeace campaigning, the EU decides to phase out drift nets. Also in 1998, logging giant MacMillan Bloedel announces it will phase out its clearcut operations in Canada’s pristine rainforests. Greenpeace fliesa balloon over the Taj Mahal to protest nuclear weapons testing by India and Pakistan.

1999

Special reports from the Greenpeace science and political units reflection the year’s campaign activities. Greenpeace activists are in the firing line as Norway and Japan continue whaling. Our scientists reveal that Bhopal in India, the site of one of the world’s worst toxic chemical disasters in 1984, is still highly contaminated. Greenpeace establishes a base in Manaus, Brazil, to help protect the Amazon.

2001

Witnesses of environmental crimes speak out. A grandmother describes being jailed for taking a peaceful stand against destruction of the Great Bear Rainforest on Canada’s West Coast. Such resistance ultimately led to an agreement to preserve this forest.

An African American man, whose family was devastated by chemical pollution, speaks out to delegates, who later brokered the Stockholm Treaty to limit chemical pollution. A Greenpeace campaigner tells how confrontations with pirate fishers deep in the Atlantic Ocean helped clinch the protection of endangered tuna species.

2002

Vision, Movement, Spirit: Playing cat and mouse with whalers in the Southern Ocean, facing death threats from illegal loggers in the Amazon, crossing Greenland by dog sled.

It’s all in a day’s work for Greenpeace, and these are just some of the stories from the 2002 annual report – plus, of course, the financial facts and figures and reports from each campaign area.

2003

There are huge numbers of people on every continent who are committed to the common good, and who are no longer willing to accept the agendas of timid or inept governments or unscrupulous corporations. This global social movement has been described as the “emerging second superpower” and is made up of millions of people dedicated to environmental protection, human rights and social development.

The continued growth of Greenpeace – as laid out in this annual report – shows that even in economically difficult times people have a vision of a different world. This is our best hope for a better future.

2004

Environmental crimes happen daily with no government, court, police or authority to turn to. We cannot rely on governments, alone, to act and make change. We can rely on people. The world’s second superpower can guide change, indeed provoke it. And where people gather for change, you will find Greenpeace.

2005

<b>2005 was a milestone for the planet -the year that the Kyoto Protocol finally became law. It took a long time to get here – over ten years – and it’s only the beginning of the battle, but Kyoto is about more than reducing greenhouse gas emissions. One of its most exciting results is to prove that people from the diverse communities of the world are learning to work together to solve global environmental problems.</b>

People power is the future for environmental campaigning, and this year we have had some exciting victories by using the internet to bring together people from around the world to put pressure on companies and politicians – demanding change through ‘cyberactivism’. Earlier in the year, Sony Ericsson became the latest global electronics giant to announce that it will phase out toxic chemicals from its products following our online action in which thousands of ordinary people took part to pressure electronics companies to come clean…

2006

<b>Inconvenient truths and unlikely allies combined in 2006 to make it a notable year for Greenpeace and the environment.</b>

Greenpeace has campaigned for climate protection for two decades, and is uniquely placed to provide leadership in the tough years to come: to promote radical solutions and oppose false promises. Our financial independence – we take no money from governments or corporations – and adherence to the principles of peaceful nonviolent direct action give enormous support to the solutions we propose. Our long involvement in the climate debate means we can hold the politicians to their promises and ensure that the new ‘greening of business’, or Corporate Social Responsibility, is not a soft sell, devoid of hard action, but something that will combine to hold global warming to a manageable level.